
What is client?

A client is computer or software that accesses a services made available by server. 
the server is often but not always located on a separate location on separate physical computer. 


What is server?

A server is physical computer dedicated to run services to serve the needs of the other computers.
Depending on the services that is running, it could be a server file, database server, home media, 
print server or web server.



client/server there are 3 types of architecture

1-tier architecture 
2-tier architecture
3-tier architecture


1-tier architecture
server and client reside in same system/network


2-tier architecture
client tier and database tier are on different location  

3-tier architecture
client tier- 
business logic - web server
database tier - database server


client layer - also known as presentation layer ( HTML, JAVA Script, CSS) 
Business logic/web server - Java, python, rubi, C# 
Database layer - MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, SQL server. 

all are on different location 


What is API?

Application Programming Interface
it enables communication and data exchange between two separate software systems. 
A software system implementing an API contains functions/sub-routines which can be executed by another software system. 



Difference betweeen Unit testing and API testing

Unit Testing														API Testing

1)Developers perform it 								Tester perform it 
2) separate functionality is tested 					End to end functionality is tested 
3) Developer can access the source code					Tester can not access the source code
4) UI testing also involved (User Interface)			Only API functions are tested
5) only basic functionalities are tested				all functional issues are tested
6) Limited in scope										Broader in scope
7) usually ran before check-in 							ran after build is created


 
SOAP services and REST services
********SOAP - simple object access protocol
 ( old technology, HTTP medium (POST Request Only) XML format only 
 
 
********REST - REpresentational state transfer 
( new technology, HTTP medium(POST, GET,PUT,DELETE....) XML/JSON/TEXT format

GET request - we can get the data from database via GET request - to get the resource - SELECT in SQL
POST- there is no data in database present by POST request we can create or generate the records - to create new resources - INSERT in SQL
PUT - data is already present and we can update by PUT request - to update new resources - UPDATE in SQL
DELETE - if we want to delete the data from database - to delete the resources - DELETE in SQL


challenges

1. initial setup for API testing environment 
2. updating the schema of API testing
3. testing parameter combinations
4. sequencing the API calls
5. Validating parameters


TOOLS Available:
--SoapUI
--POSTMAN
--JMeter
--REST-assured - API Automation testing using java code




























 